site/content/docs/0.0/layout/utilities.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Utilities for layout
description: For faster mobile-friendly and responsive development, OUDS Web includes dozens of utility classes for showing, hiding, aligning, and spacing content.
group: layout
aliases:
  - "/docs/layout/utilities/"
toc: true
---

## Changing `display`

Use our [display utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/display" >}}) for responsively toggling common values of the `display` property. Mix it with our grid system, content, or components to show or hide them across specific viewports.

## Flexbox options

OUDS Web is built with flexbox, but not every element's `display` has been changed to `display: flex` as this would add many unnecessary overrides and unexpectedly change key browser behaviors. <!-- Most of [our components]({{< docsref "/components/alerts" >}}) are built with flexbox enabled. -->

Should you need to add `display: flex` to an element, do so with `.d-flex` or one of the responsive variants (e.g., `.d-sm-flex`). You'll need this class or `display` value to allow the use of our extra [flexbox utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/flex" >}}) for sizing, alignment, spacing, and more.

<!-- ## Margin and padding

Use the `margin` and `padding` [spacing utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) to control how elements and components are spaced and sized. OUDS Web includes a eight-level scale for spacing utilities, based on a `1.25rem` value default `$spacer` variable. Choose values for all viewports (e.g., `.me-3` for `margin-right: 1.25rem` in LTR), or pick responsive variants to target specific viewports (e.g., `.me-md-3` for `margin-right: 1.25rem` —in LTR— starting at the `md` breakpoint). -->

## Toggle `visibility`

When toggling `display` isn't needed, you can toggle the `visibility` of an element with our [visibility utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/visibility" >}}). Invisible elements will still affect the layout of the page, but are visually hidden from visitors.

Commit message:

Implementing Size, Spacing and Dimension tokens and associated doc

site/content/docs/0.0/layout/utilities.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Utilities for layout
description: For faster mobile-friendly and responsive development, OUDS Web includes dozens of utility classes for showing, hiding, aligning, and spacing content.
group: layout
aliases:
  - "/docs/layout/utilities/"
toc: true
---

## Changing `display`

Use our [display utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/display" >}}) for responsively toggling common values of the `display` property. Mix it with our grid system, content, or components to show or hide them across specific viewports.

## Flexbox options

OUDS Web is built with flexbox, but not every element's `display` has been changed to `display: flex` as this would add many unnecessary overrides and unexpectedly change key browser behaviors. <!-- Most of [our components]({{< docsref "/components/alerts" >}}) are built with flexbox enabled. -->

Should you need to add `display: flex` to an element, do so with `.d-flex` or one of the responsive variants (e.g., `.d-sm-flex`). You'll need this class or `display` value to allow the use of our extra [flexbox utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/flex" >}}) for sizing, alignment, spacing, and more.

## Margin and padding

Use the `margin` and `padding` [spacing utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/spacing" >}}) to control how elements and components are spaced and sized. OUDS Web includes a eight-level scale for spacing utilities, based on a `4px` value default `$ouds-dimension--space-fixed` variable. Choose values for all viewports (e.g., `.me-medium` for `margin-right: 16px` in LTR), or pick responsive variants to target specific viewports (e.g., `.me-md-medium` for `margin-right: 16px` —in LTR— starting at the `md` breakpoint).

## Toggle `visibility`

When toggling `display` isn't needed, you can toggle the `visibility` of an element with our [visibility utilities]({{< docsref "/utilities/visibility" >}}). Invisible elements will still affect the layout of the page, but are visually hidden from visitors.
