site/content/docs/0.0/migration-from-boosted.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Migrating from Boosted
description: Track and review changes to the OUDS Web source files, documentation, and components to help you migrate from Boosted to OUDS Web.
group: migration
aliases:
  - "/migration-from-boosted/"
  - "/docs/migration-from-boosted/"
---

# Migrating from Boosted

This guide provides information on how to migrate from Boosted (latest release) to OUDS Web.

## Fonts

OUDS Web doesn't use the Helvetica Neue font. Instead, it uses the system font stack. This means that the font will be different depending on the operating system and browser being used.

Technically, it means that you can get rid of the following things:
- Helvetica Neue woff2 files: `fonts/HelvNeue55_W1G.woff2`, `fonts/HelvNeue75_W1G.woff2`, `fonts/HelveticaNeueW20-55Roman.woff2`, and `fonts/HelveticaNeueW20-75Bold.woff2`.
- `orange-helvetica.*.css` file (default, RTL, or minified version).
- If you were customizing your Sass compilation, you can remove the `@import "orange-helvetica";` line from your Sass files if it was there.

## Components

- <span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> `.btn-close-white` class has been removed as it was deprecated in Boosted v5.3.3.

### CSS and Sass variables

- <details class="mb-2">
    <summary><span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> Dropped deprecated Sass variables:</summary>
    <ul>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-bg</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-hover-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-active-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-active-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-disabled-color</code></li>
    </ul>
  </details>

- <details class="mb-2">
    <summary><span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> Dropped deprecated CSS variables:</summary>
    <ul>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-bg</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-hover-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-active-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-active-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-disabled-color</code></li>
    </ul>
  </details>

Commit message:

feat(css): drop `form-star-rating()` mixin (#2635)

site/content/docs/0.0/migration-from-boosted.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Migrating from Boosted
description: Track and review changes to the OUDS Web source files, documentation, and components to help you migrate from Boosted to OUDS Web.
group: migration
aliases:
  - "/migration-from-boosted/"
  - "/docs/migration-from-boosted/"
toc: true
---

This guide provides information on how to migrate from Boosted (latest release) to OUDS Web.

## Fonts

OUDS Web doesn't use the Helvetica Neue font. Instead, it uses the system font stack. This means that the font will be different depending on the operating system and browser being used.

Technically, it means that you can get rid of the following things:
- Helvetica Neue woff2 files: `fonts/HelvNeue55_W1G.woff2`, `fonts/HelvNeue75_W1G.woff2`, `fonts/HelveticaNeueW20-55Roman.woff2`, and `fonts/HelveticaNeueW20-75Bold.woff2`.
- `orange-helvetica.*.css` file (default, RTL, or minified version).
- If you were customizing your Sass compilation, you can remove the `@import "orange-helvetica";` line from your Sass files if it was there.

## Components

### Close button

- <span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> `.btn-close-white` class has been removed as it was deprecated in Boosted v5.3.3.

## Forms

### Checks & radios

- <span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> `form-star-rating()` mixin has been removed as it was deprecated in Boosted v5.3.2.

## CSS and Sass variables

- <details class="mb-2">
    <summary><span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> Dropped deprecated Sass variables:</summary>
    <ul>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-bg</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-hover-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-active-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-active-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>$btn-close-white-disabled-color</code></li>
    </ul>
  </details>

- <details class="mb-2">
    <summary><span class="badge text-bg-warning">Warning</span> Dropped deprecated CSS variables:</summary>
    <ul>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-bg</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-hover-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-active-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-active-border-color</code></li>
      <li><code>--bs-btn-close-disabled-color</code></li>
    </ul>
  </details>
