site/content/docs/0.0/customize/lib-for-orange.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Lib for Orange
description: Customize your library for your country/B-brand following the guide.
group: customize
aliases:
  - "/docs/customize/lib-for-orange/"
toc: true
---

{{< callout danger >}}
**This content is not for standalone project purpose.** The following content is about changing the whole library for a totally different design or brand.
{{< /callout >}}

## Architecture

### `_raw.scss`

This file gathers all the basic tokens. These tokens aren't meant to be used as-is because they don't convey any semantic meaning, but they are the basic values of the Orange Unified Design System. They are meant to be used by the semantic tokens and, in some rare cases, on the components tokens.

### `_semantic.scss`

This file gathers all the semantic tokens. These tokens are meant to be used as-is. They use the raw tokens and give them some semantic meaning using media queries or specific contexts. They are meant to be used as-is either in the utilities or in the components tokens.

### `_components.scss`

This file gathers all the components tokens. These tokens are meant to be used in the components only. They use either the raw tokens or, more commonly, the semantic tokens. They are only a mapping of the semantic tokens.

## Customization

### Modifying the tokens

#### Having a designer

If you have a designer (and you probably should since you are creating a new brand), the changes should be quite easy to implement. You should  <!--either -->replace our token files with yours, manually replacing and remapping the tokens using the ones provided by your designer<!-- or even simpler, replace our tokens files by yours using our StyleDictionary parser-->.

Follow [our guide on Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-j5teen) to see how it should behave and how your library should look once the tokens have been changed.

#### Having no designer

If you have no designer, please contact the [OUDS Web core team]({{< docsref "/about/team" >}}).

### Documentation

You should build and deploy your documentation on your own. You can, of course, start from our documentation and enhance or delete parts of it. You can also start from scratch using any kind of framework to build your website.

Commit message:

Enhance 'Lib for Orange' markdown

site/content/docs/0.0/customize/lib-for-orange.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Lib for Orange
description: Learn how to customize your library for your country/B-brand following the guide.
group: customize
aliases:
  - "/docs/customize/lib-for-orange/"
toc: true
---

{{< callout danger >}}
**This content is not intended for standalone projects.** It is specifically for those looking to customize the entire library to fit a completely different design or brand.
{{< /callout >}}

## Architecture

### Raw tokens

The `scss/tokens/_raw.scss` file consolidates all basic tokens. While these tokens don't carry semantic meaning and aren't meant to be used directly, they form the foundation of the Orange Unified Design System. Their primary purpose is to be utilized by semantic tokens, and occasionally, by component tokens.

### Semantic tokens

The `scss/tokens/_semantic.scss` file contains all the semantic tokens. Unlike raw tokens, these are intended to be used directly. They build on raw tokens, assigning them semantic meaning through media queries or specific contexts. These tokens are ready to be applied either in utilities or directly within component tokens.

### Component tokens

The `scss/tokens/_components.scss` file is dedicated to component tokens. These tokens should be used exclusively within components, often relying on semantic tokens, though they may occasionally reference raw tokens. Essentially, they map the semantic tokens to components.

## Customization

### Modifying the tokens

#### Having a designer

If you have a designer (which is highly recommended when creating a new brand), implementing changes should be straightforward. You'll need to replace our token files with those provided by your designer, manually substituting and remapping tokens to match your brand’s specifications.

For a practical example of how this process works and what your customized library should look like after the changes, refer to [our guide on Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-j5teen).

#### Having no designer

In the absence of a designer, it’s advisable to reach out to the [OUDS Web core team]({{< docsref "/about/team" >}}).

### Building and deploying documentation

You are responsible for building and deploying your documentation. You can start with our existing documentation, modifying or removing sections as needed to fit your new design. Alternatively, you may choose to build your documentation from scratch using any preferred framework.
